Add documentation - Getting Started : Storing Data (#1812)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/guides/getting-started/2-storing-and-accessing-data/index.md

---
code: false
type: page
title: Storing and Accessing Data
description: Create and retrieve documents
order: 200
---

# Storing and Accessing Data

Now that Kuzzle is running, we are going to create some documents.

Kuzzle organizes the data storage in 4 levels: 
  - indexes
  - collections
  - documents
  - fields

An index brings together several collections, which in turn contain several documents, each of which is composed of several fields.

The collections have mappings that characterize the way Elasticsearch will index the data for the search.

::: info
It is recommended that you define your own mappings in order to specify the desired types for your collections and avoid default types that may be imprecise.
:::

> If you're more familiar with the way relational databases store data, here is how it compares:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're more familiar with the way relational databases store data, here is an analogy. Bear in mind that this is only to give you a rough point of comparison with a relational database, the similarities end here:
```

| Relational databases storage | Document-oriented storage |
| :--------------------------: | :-----------------------: |
| database                     | index                     |
| table                        | collection                |
| schema                       | mappings                  |
| line                         | document                  |
| column                       | field                     |

### Prepare the database

> First, we are gonna create an index with Kourou: `kourou index:create nyc-open-data`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we are going to create an index with Kourou: `kourou index:create nyc-open-data`
```

::: info
This will use the [index:create](/core/2/api/controllers/index/create) API action.
:::

> Then, we are gonna create a collection inside this index. We will provide the following basic mappings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, we are going to create a collection inside this index. We will provide the following basic mappings:
```

    city: { type: "keyword" },
    age: { type: "integer" }
  }
}
```

Run the following command to create our `yellow-taxi` collection: 

```bash
$ kourou collection:create nyc-open-data yellow-taxi '{
  properties: {
    name: { type: "keyword" },
    city: { type: "keyword" },
    age: { type: "integer" }
  }
}'
```

::: info
This will use the [collection:create](/core/2/api/controllers/index/create) API action.
:::

### Create some documents

Now we have a collection ready to receive documents, again use Kourou to create one:

```bash
$ kourou document:create nyc-open-data yellow-taxi '{
  name: "Yagmur",
  city: "Antalya",
  age: 27
}'
```

::: info
This will use the [document:create](/core/2/api/controllers/index/create) API action.
:::

Finally, we are going to use the [Admin Console](http://console.kuzzle.io) to look at what we have created.

Select the `nyc-open-data` index and then the `yellow-taxi` collection. You should see one document in this collection.

![admin console show document](./admin-console-show-document.gif)

### Search for documents

Un des meilleur atouts de Kuzzle est d'exposer directement de façon sécurisé la fonction de recherche d'Elasticsearch.

> Nous allons pouvoir utiliser le puissant langage de requête d'Elasticsearch pour récupérer les documents qui nous intéressent. 

Reviewer: Missing translation. And I'm not fond of qualifying that as "one of kuzzle's best asset" since all we do is to expose someone else's work.

```suggestion
Kuzzle directly exposes Elasticsearch's query language in a secure way. 

We'll now use that to search for the documents we're interested in.
```

First, we need to create more documents:

```bash
$ kourou sdk:execute --code '
  for (let i = 1; i <= 10; i++) {
    await sdk.document.create("nyc-open-data", "yellow-taxi", {
      name: `Yagmur-${i}`,
      city: i % 2 ? "Antalya" : "Istanbul",
      age: 27 + i
    });
  }'
```

::: info
Kourou is able to execute Javascript code snippets.  

> A `sdk` variable is exposed and refer to an instance of the [Javascript SDK](/sdk/js/7) connected (and authenticated if credentials were provided) to Kuzzle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `sdk` variable is exposed and refers to an instance of the [Javascript SDK](/sdk/js/7), connected to Kuzzle and authenticated if credentials are provided.
```

::: 

Then we are going to use the [document:search](/core/2/api/controllers/document/search) API action to fetch only documents where:

>  - `age` is greather than `30`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `age` is greater than `30`
```

---
code: false
type: page
title: Storing and accessing Data
description: Create and retrieve documents
order: 200
---

# Storing and accessing Data

Now that Kuzzle is running, we are going to create some documents.

Kuzzle organizes the data storage in 4 levels: 
  - indexes
  - collections
  - documents
  - fields

An index brings together several collections, which in turn contain several documents, each of which is composed of several fields.

> The collections have mappings that characterize the way Elasticsearch will index the data for the search.

Reviewer 2: maybe add a link to know more about the mappings, either from our doc, or directly to the elasticsearch doc
